.\"
.\"	SWISH++
.\"	splitmail.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 2000  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.if !'\\$1'0' .sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3splitmail\f1 1 "December 13, 2000" "SWISH++"
.SH NAME
splitmail \- split mailbox files prior to indexing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B splitmail -p
.I prefix
.BI "[ " file " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B splitmail
is a utility to split a mailbox file
(or standard input)
comprised of multiple messages
into multiple files of individual messages
to facilitate indexing with
.BR index (1).
The generated files have 5-digit increasing numbers
appended to a common prefix.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-p prefix
Specifies the common prefix.
.SH EXAMPLE
The command:
.cS
splitmail -p msg sent_messages
.cE
splits the mailbox \f(CWsent_messages\f1 into files named
\f(CWmsg.00001\f1,
\f(CWmsg.00002\f1,
and so on.
.SH NOTE
This utility hasn't been exhaustively tested.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (1).
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < pauljlucas@mac.com >
