.\"
.\"	SWISH++
.\"	search.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3search\fP 1 "February 3, 1998" "SWISH++"
.SH NAME
search \- SWISH++ searcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B search
[
.I options
]
.I query
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B search
is the SWISH++ searcher.
.SS Query Input
The formal grammar of a query is:
.ft 2
.RS 5
.TP 16
query:
query optional_relop meta
.br
meta
.TP
meta:
meta_name \f(CW=\fP primary
.br
primary
.TP
meta_name:
word
.TP
primary:
\f(CW(\fP query \f(CW)\fP
.br
\f(CWnot\fP
primary
.br
word
.br
word\f(CW*\fP
.TP
optional_relop:
\f(CWand\fP
.br
\f(CWor\fP
.br
(empty)
.RE
.ft 1
.PP
In practice, however, the query is the set of words sought after,
possibly restricted to meta data,
and possibly combined with the Boolean operators
``\f(CWand\fP,''
``\f(CWor\fP,''
and
``\f(CWnot\fP.''
The asterisk (\f(CW*\fP) can be used as a wildcard character
at the end of words.
Queries are evaluated in left-to-right order, i.e.,
``\f(CWand\fP'' has the same precedence as ``\f(CWor\fP.''
See the EXAMPLES.
.SS Results Output
The results are output in the format of:
.cS
.I rank path-name file-size file-title
.cE
where
.I rank
is an integer from from 1 to 100.
The
.I path-name
is relative to where the set of files was originally indexed.
If the file is an HTML file, then
.I file-title
is its title;
otherwise, it is its filename.
A results line can be parsed easily in Perl with:
.cS
($rank,$path,$size,$title) = split( / /, $_, 4 );
.cE
In addition to results lines, comment lines may also appear
containing additional information about the query results.
Comment lines are in the format of:
.cS
# \f2comment-key\fP: \f2comment-value\fP
.cE
The
.I comment-keys
are:
.RS 5
.TP 22
\f3ignored\fP: \f2stop-words\fP
The list of stop-words (separated by spaces) ignored in the query.
.TP
\f3not found\fP: \f2word\fP
The word was not found in the index.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 16
.BI \-d
Dump the query word indices to standard output and exit.
Wildcards are not permitted.
.TP
.B \-D
Dump the entire word index to standard output and exit.
.TP
.BI \-i index-file
The name of the index file to use.
The default is \f(CWthe.index\fP in the present working directory.
.TP
.BI \-m max-results
The maximum number of results to return overriding the
compiled-in default (which is usually 100).
.TP
.BI \-s skip-results
The initial number of results to skip.
The default is 0.
Used in conjunction with
.BR \-m ,
results can be returned in ``pages.''
.TP
.B \-M
Dump the meta-name index to standard output and exit.
.TP
.B \-S
Dump the stop-word index to standard output and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print the version number of
.B SWISH++
to standard output and exit.
.TP
\f3\-w\fP\f2size\fP[,\f2match\fP]
Dump a ``window'' of at most
.I size
lines around each query word matching
.I match
characters.
Wildcards are not permitted.
The default for
.I match
is 0.
Every window ends with a blank line.
.SH EXAMPLES
The query:
.cS
librar*
.cE
will return all documents that contain
``library,'' ``libraries,'' or ``librarian.''
The query:
.cS
mouse and computer
.cE
will return only those documents
regarding the kind of mice attached to a computer and not the rodents.
The query:
.cS
cat or kitten or feline
.cE
will return only those documents regarding cats.
The query:
.cS
mouse or mice and not computer
.cE
will return only those documents regarding mice (the rodents)
and not the kind attached to a computer. 
The query:
.cS
mouse and computer or keyboard
.cE
is the same as:
.cS
(mouse and computer) or keyboard
.cE
in that they will both return only those documents
regarding either mice attached to a computer or any kind of keyboard.
However, neither of those is the same as:
.cS
mouse and (computer or keyboard)
.cE
that will return only those documents regarding mice
and either a computer or a keyboard. 
.SS Examples Using Meta Data
The query:
.cS
author = carroll
.cE
will return only those HTML documents
whose author attribute contains ``carroll.''
The query:
.cS
author = stevenson treasure
.cE
will return only those HTML documents
whose author attribute contains ``stevenson'' and also regarding treasure.
The query:
.cS
author = (lewis carroll)
.cE
will return only those HTML documents whose author is Lewis Carroll.
The query:
.cS
author = (lewis carroll) or wonderland
.cE
will return only those HTML documents whose author is Lewis Carroll
or that contain the word ``wonderland'' anywhere in the document
regardless of the author.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits with a value of zero only if the query was properly formed;
non-zero otherwise.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 14
\f(CWthe.index\fP
default index file name
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (1),
.BR perlfunc (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < pjl@best.com >
