.\"
.\"	SWISH++
.\"	httpindex.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.if !'\\$1'0' .sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3httpindex\f1 1 "December 29, 2009" "SWISH++"
.SH NAME
httpindex \- HTTP front-end for SWISH++ indexer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wget
[
.I options
]
.I URL...
.B 2>&1 | httpindex
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B httpindex
is a front-end for
.BR index (1)
to index files copied from remote servers using
.BR wget (1).
The files (in a copy of the remote directory structure)
can be kept, deleted, or replaced with their descriptions after indexing.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS wget Options
The
.BR wget (1)
options that are
.B required
are:
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-nv ,
.BR \-r ,
and
.BR \-x ;
the ones that are
.B highly recommended
are:
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-nh ,
.BR \-t ,
and
.BR \-w .
(See the EXAMPLE.)
.SS httpindex Options
.B httpindex
accepts the same short options as
.BR index (1)
except for
.BR \-H ,
.BR \-I ,
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-S ,
and
.BR \-V .
.PP
The following options are unique to
.BR httpindex :
.TP
.B \-d
Replace the text of local copies of retrieved files with their descriptions
after they have been indexed.
This is useful to display file descriptions in search results
without having to have complete copies of the remote files
thus saving filesystem space.
(See the \f(CWextract_description()\f1 function in
.BR WWW (3)
for details about how descriptions are extracted.)
.TP
.B \-D
Delete the local copies of retrieved files after they have been indexed.
This prevents your local filesystem from filling up
with copies of remote files.
.SH EXAMPLE
To index all HTML and text files on a remote web server
keeping descriptions locally:
.cS
wget -A html,txt -linf -t2 -rxnv -nh -w2 http://www.foo.com 2>&1 |
httpindex -d -e'html:*.html,text:*.txt'
.cE
Note that you need to redirect
.BR wget (1)'s
output from standard error to standard output in order
to pipe it to
.BR httpindex .
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits with a value of zero only if indexing completed sucessfully;
non-zero otherwise.
.SH CAVEATS
In addition to those for
.BR index (1),
.B httpindex
does not correctly handle the use of multiple
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-E ,
.BR \-m ,
or
.B \-M
options
(because the Perl script uses the standard \f(CWGetOpt::Std\f1 package
for processing command-line options that doesn't).
The last of any of those options ``wins.''
.PP
The work-around is to use multiple values for those options
seperated by commas to a single one of those options.
For example, if you want to do:
.cS
httpindex -e'html:*.html' -e'text:*.txt'
.cE
do this instead:
.cS
httpindex -e'html:*.html,text:*.txt'
.cE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (1),
.BR wget (1),
.BR WWW (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < paul@lucasmail.org >
