.\"
.\"	SWISH++
.\"	extract.1
.\"
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998  Paul J. Lucas
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" define code-start macro
.de cS
.sp
.nf
.RS 5
.ft CW
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
..
.\" define code-end macro
.de cE
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.if !'\\$1'0' .sp
..
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH \f3extract\fP 1 "December 29, 2009" "SWISH++"
.SH NAME
extract \- SWISH++ text extractor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extract
[
.I options
]
.I directory...
.I file...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B extract
is the SWISH++ text extractor,
a utility to extract what text there is from a (mostly) binary file
(similar to the
.BR strings (1)
command)
prior to indexing.
Original files are untouched.
.PP
Text is extracted from the specified files
and files in the specified directories;
text from files in subdirectories of specified directories is also extracted
by default (unless the
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-\-no-recurse ,
.BR \-f ,
or
.B \-\-filter
option or the
.B RecurseSubdirs
or
.B ExtractFilter
variable is given).
.PP
Ordinarily,
text is extracted from files either only if their filename matches
one of the patterns in the set specified with either the
.B \-e
or
.B \-\-pattern
option or the
.B IncludeFile
variable (unless standard input is used; see next paragraph)
or is not among the set specified with either the
.B \-E
or
.B \-\-no-pattern
option or the
.B ExcludeFile
variable.
.PP
If there is a single filename of `\f(CW-\f1', the list of directories and files
to extract is instead taken from standard input (one per line).
In this case,
filename patterns of files to extract need not be specified explicitly:
all files, regardless of whether they match a pattern
(unless they are among the set not to extract specified with either the
.B \-E
or
.B \-\-no-pattern
option or the
.B ExcludeFile
variable), are extracted, i.e.,
.B extract
assumes you know what you're doing when specifying filenames in this manner.
.PP
Ordinarily, the text extracted from a file is written to another file
in the same directory having the same filename
but with the ``\f(CW.txt\fP'' extension
appended by default, e.g., ``\f(CWfoo.doc\fP'' becomes ``\f(CWfoo.doc.txt\fP''
after extraction.
(See also the
.B \-x
or
.B \-\-extension
option or the
.B ExtractExtension
variable.)
However, extraction is not performed if the extracted text file exists.
.PP
If either the
.B \-f
or
.B \-\-filter
option or the
.B ExtractFilter
variable is given,
then only a single file specified on the command line
is extracted to standard output.
In this case, filename patterns are not used
and the existence of an extracted text file is irrelevant.
.SS Filters
Via the
.B FilterFile
configuration file variable,
files having particular patterns can be filtered prior to extraction.
(See the examples in
.BR swish++.conf (4).)
.SS Character Mapping and Word Determination
.B extract
performs the same character mapping, character entity conversions,
and word determination heuristics used by
.BR index (1)
but also additionally:
.TP 4
1.
Considers all PostScript Level 2 operators that are not also English words
to be stop words.
Such words in a file usually indicate an encapsulated PostScript (EPS) file
and such should not be indexed.
.TP
2.
Looks specifically for encapsulated PostScript (EPS) data between
everything between one of
\f(CW%%BeginSetup\fP,
\f(CW%%BoundingBox\fP,
\f(CW%%Creator\fP,
\f(CW%%EndComments\fP,
or
\f(CW%%Title\fP
and
\f(CW%%Trailer\fP
and discards it.
.TP
3.
Discards strings of ASCII hex data \f(CWWord_Hex_Min_Size\fP
characters or longer, e.g., ``\f(CW7F454C46\fP.''
(Default is 5.)
.SS Motivation
.B extract
was developed to be able to index non-text files in proprietary formats
such as Microsoft Office documents.
There are a couple of reasons why the functionality of
.B extract
isn't simply built into
.BR index (1):
.TP 4
1.
Users who do not need to index such documents
shouldn't have to pay the performance penalty for doing the extra checks for
PostScript and hex data.
.TP
2.
While
.BR index (1)
can uncompress files on the fly using filters also,
uncompressing them every time indexing is performed is excessive.
Text extraction, on the other hand, is done only once per file;
if the file is updated, the text-extracted version should be deleted and
recreated.
.SH OPTIONS
Options begin with either a `\f(CW-\f1' for short options
or a ``\f(CW--\f1'' for long options.
Either a `\f(CW-\f1' or ``\f(CW--\f1'' by itself explicitly ends the options;
however, the difference is that `\f(CW-\f1' is returned as the first non-option
whereas ``\f(CW--\f1'' is skipped entirely.
Long option names may be abbreviated
so long as the abbreviation is unambiguous.
.PP
For a short option that takes an argument,
the argument is either taken to be the remaining characters of the same option,
if any, or, if not, is taken from the next option unless said option begins
with a `\f(CW-\f1'.
.PP
Short options that take no arguments can be grouped
(but the last option in the group can take an argument), e.g.,
\f(CW-lrv4\fP
is equivalent to
\f(CW-l -r -v4\fP.
.PP
For a long option that takes an argument,
the argument is either taken to be the characters after a `\f(CW=\fP', if any,
or, if not, is taken from the next option unless said option begins with
a `\f(CW-\fP'.
.TP 18
.B \-?
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the usage (``help'') message and exit.
.TP
.BI \-c c
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-\-config-file= c
The name of the configuration file,
.IR c ,
to use.
(Default is \f(CWswish++.conf\f1 in the current directory.)
A configuration file is not required:
if none is specified and the default does not exist, none is used;
however, if one is specified and it does not exist, then this is an error.
.TP
.BI \-e p [, p ...]
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-\-pattern= p [, p ...]
A filename pattern (or set of patterns separated by commas),
.IR p ,
of files to extract text from.
Case is significant.
Multiple
.B \-e
or
.B \-\-pattern
options may be specified.
.TP
.BI \-E p [, p ...]
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-\-no-pattern= p [, p ...]
A filename pattern or patterns,
.IR p ,
of files
.I not
to extract text from.
Case is significant.
Multiple
.B \-E
or
.B \-\-no-pattern
options may be specified.
.TP
.B \-f
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-\-filter
Extract a single file to standard output and exit.
.TP
.B \-l
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-\-follow-links
Follow symbolic links during extraction.
The default is not to follow them.
(This option is not available under Microsoft Windows
since it doesn't support symbolic links.)
.TP
.B \-r
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-\-no-recurse
Do not recursively extract the files in subdirectories,
that is: when a directory is encountered,
all the files in that directory are extracted
(modulo the filename patterns specified via the
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-\-pattern ,
.BR \-E ,
or
.B \-\-no-pattern
options or the
.B IncludeFile
or
.B ExcludeFile
variables) but subdirectories encountered are ignored
and therefore the files contained in them are not extracted.
(This option is most useful when specifying the directories and files to extract
via standard input.)
The default is to extract the files in subdirectories recursively.
.TP
.BI \-s f
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-\-stop-file= f
The name of a file,
.IR f ,
containing the set stop-words to use instead of the built-in set.
Whitespace, including blank lines, and characters starting with \f(CW#\f1
and continuing to the end of the line (comments) are ignored.
.TP
.B \-S
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-\-dump-stop
Dump the built-in set of stop-words to standard output and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v c
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-\-verbosity= v
The verbosity level,
.IR v ,
for printing additional information to standard output during indexing.
The verbosity levels, 0-4, are:
.PP
.RS 18
.PD 0
.TP 4
0
No output is generated (except for errors).
.TP
1
Only run statistics (elapsed time, number of files, word count) are printed.
.TP
2
Directories are printed as extraction progresses.
.TP
3
Directories and files are printed with a word-count for each file.
.TP
4
Same as 3 but also prints all files that are not extracted and why.
.RE
.PD
.RE
.TP 18
.B \-V
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version number of
.BR SWISH++
and exit.
.TP
.BI \-x e
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-\-extension= e
The extension to append to filenames during extraction.
(It can be specified with or without the dot;
default is \f(CWtxt\f1.)
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The following variables can be set in a configuration file.
Variables and command-line options can be mixed.
.PP
.RS 5
.PD 0
.TP 18
.B ExcludeFile
Same as
.B \-E
or
.B \-\-no-pattern
.TP
.B ExtractExtension
Same as
.B \-x
or
.B \-\-extension
.TP
.B ExtractFilter
Same as
.B \-f
or
.B \-\-filter
.TP
.B FilterAttachment
(See FILTERS in
.BR swish++.conf (4).)
.TP
.B FilterFile
(See FILTERS in
.BR swish++.conf (4).)
.TP
.B FollowLinks
Same as
.B \-l
or
.B \-\-follow-links
.TP
.B IncludeFile
Same as
.B \-e
or
.B \-\-pattern
.TP
.B RecurseSubdirs
Same as
.B \-r
or
.B \-\-no-recurse
.TP
.B StopWordFile
Same as
.B \-s
or
.B \-\-stop-file
.TP
.B Verbosity
Same as
.B \-v
or
.B \-\-verbosity
.PD
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Extraction
To extract text from all Microsoft Office files on a web server:
.cS
cd /home/www/htdocs
extract -v3 -e '*.doc' -e '*.ppt' -e '*.xls' .
.cE
.SS Filters
(See the examples in
.BR swish++.conf (4).)
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits with one of the values given below:
.PP
.RS 5
.PD 0
.TP 5
0
Success.
.TP
1
Error in configuration file.
.TP
2
Error in command-line options.
.TP
20
File to extract does not exist.
.TP
30
Unable to read stop-word file.
.PD
.RE
.SH CAVEATS
.TP 4
1.
Text extraction is not perfect, nor can be.
.TP
2.
As with
.BR index (1),
the word-determination heuristics employed are heavily geared for English.
Using SWISH++ as-is to extract files in non-English languages
is not recommended.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 18
\f(CWswish++.conf\f1
default configuration file name
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (1),
.BR search (1),
.BR strings (1),
.BR swish++.conf (4),
.BR glob (7)
.PP
Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.I PostScript Language Reference Manual, 2nd ed.
Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA.
pp. 346-359.
.PP
International Standards Organization.
``ISO/IEC 9945-2: Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX)
-- Part 2: Shell and Utilities,''
1993.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul J. Lucas
.RI < paul@lucasmail.org >
